DIP-03 (was 02)
======

data identifiers
-----

## Synopsis

Use cryptographic identifiers for lists and list items.

## General principle

Use a cryptographic identifier, such as a nostr note event id, and IPFS hash, an IPNS name, or a bitcoin address as a pointer to a file or some piece of data.

An example of naming methods that do not use a cryptographic identifier would be: the 'hashtag' method (the text of the hashtag itself is the identifier), or the 'slug' method, as used by OpenBazaar as a reference to product listings (typically, the slug is created from the product listing's name by replacing all spaces with a dash).

Advantages of the cryptographic identifier method: 

Advantage 1: Single name with multiple (competing) meanings. It allows multiple items to have the same name. Example: Suppose that Alice and Bob each wish to submit the item `troll` to a list of `types of users`. They may have nonoverlapping ideas about what constitutes a troll. By using cryptographic identifiers, they can each submit an item with the name 'troll' but with their own distinct definitions of what constitutes a troll, and the community can select which definition to use in any given context.

Advantage 2: Single meaning with multiple names. Example: multi language support, uniting list items from multiple languages.

```json
{
  "name": {
    "english": "pencil",
    "spanish": "lapiz",
  },
  "description": "a writing instrument that uses graphite",
  "cryptographic-identifier": "abc123",
}
```
Using the hashtag method, `pencil` and `lápiz` would be completely separate.

## Categories of cryptographic identifiers

We will consider two types of cryptographic identifiers: mutable and immutable. The most obvious identifier is a hash of the file, which is immutable, meaning that the file cannot be altered without altering the identifier. A mutable identifier is one that allows editing of the file in question without necessitating a change in the identifier. An example of a mutable identifier is the `IPNS name` as provided by the Interplanetary Naming System [IPNS](https://docs.ipfs.tech/concepts/ipns/). Each type has its advantages and disadvantages.

It may be advisable to use multiple cryptographic identifiers simultaneously; at least one mutable identifier, such as an IPNS name, and one immutable identifier, such as an IPNS hash, a nostr event ID, etc.
