DIP-100
======

words
------------------------------

## Background

In DCoSL, data will frequently be represented as a [graph](../../glossary/graph.md), with [nodes](../../glossary/node.md) and [edges](../../glossary/relationship.md). Each node represents a piece of data and can be in any format; it could be a file in JSON, XML, CSV, JPG, binary, etc; could be a piece of code; could even represent something not digital, like a book. All it needs is some form of unique identifier or pointer to the data.

In DCoSL, by convention we will rely heavily on the JSON data format, given that JSON is so widely used in many p2p applications.

## Definition

A `word` is a [node](../glossary/node.md) which represents a single object in JSON.

## Conventions
- each `word` has the top-level property: `wordData`
- each `word` optionally has a top-level property: `metaData`
- Within any graph, `wordData.slug` should be unique and may be used as a unique identifier. Additional unique identifiers may also be used but are not required.
- Cryptographic mutable identifiers (example: IPNS name) may also be used, but are not required. 
- Human-readable unique node identifiers (`slug`) will be located under `wordData`, with non-human-readable identifiers located under `metaData`.
- `wordData` will contain default properties: `slug`, `name`, `title`, `description` (all strings; none required, except slug)
- If `wordData.name` exists, converting it into camelCase will generate `wordData.slug` with an optional suffix to ensure uniqueness (see example below)

## Example:

```json
{
  "wordData": {
    "slug": "fooBar_e12345",
    "name": "foo bar",
    "title": "Foo Bar",
  },
  ...
  "metaData": {
    "IPNS": "abcde12345",
  },
}
```

In the above example, `wordData.name` and `wordData.title` are not presumed to be unique within the concept graph. However, `wordData.slug` must be unique. To enforce uniqueness, one suggested practice will be to make use of a cryptographic identifier such as nostr event id, file hash, or IPNS name; convert the name into camelCase; then add an underscore followed by the last 6 characters of the cryptographic identifier. 

## Cryptographic identifiers

Cryptographic identifiers are not required by the DCoSL protocol, but their use is recommended. More than one type of unique identifier can be used for each word. They may be mutable or immutable; there are advantages and disadvantages to each of these types.

Immutable identifiers frequently used in this document will include: nostr event id; file hash; or IPFS hash. 

Mutable identifiers frequently used in this document will include: IPNS name.

The suggested practice is to attach an IPNS name to each word as in the example above, to record it under metaData, and to use it when necessary to ensure uniqueness of the slug.

## Publication

The publication of a `word` to nostr is described in [DIP-105](105.md).


