# unique identifiers

This DIP discusses the several types of unique identifiers that may be used in specification of a word.

There will be two categories of unique identifiers:
- locally unique identifiers (usually human readable)
- universally unique identifiers (e.g. a cryptographic hash; non human readable)

## Locally unique identifiers

Locally unique means that within a specified graph, there is no other word with the same identifier. Usually, locally unique identifiers will be human readable. 

One of the criteria of a [concept graph](../glossary/conceptGraph.md) is that `wordData.slug` serves as a locally unique identifier (local to the concept graph). 

In some cases, a [concept](../glossary/concept.md) may have some additional identifier (in addition to `wordData.slug`) that is locally unique within the concept, e.g. `playerData.jerseyNumber`.

The requirement of local uniqueness is specified by setting the `unique` field in the appropriate [property](../glossary/property.md) to `true`.

## Universally unique identifiers

Typically takes the form of a cryptographic hash. Prominent examples include:
- a nostr event id used to publish the word, as per [DIP-101](101.md)
- IPFS hash
- IPNS name

Cryptographic identifiers are not required by the DCoSL protocol, but their use is recommended. More than one type of unique identifier can be used for each word. They may be mutable or immutable; there are advantages and disadvantages to each of these types.

Immutable identifiers frequently used in this document will include: nostr event id; file hash; or IPFS hash. 

Mutable identifiers frequently used in this document will include: IPNS name.

The suggested practice is to attach an IPNS name to each word as in the example above, to record it under metaData, and to use it when necessary to ensure uniqueness of the slug.

### mutable vs immutable unique identifiers

Mutable identifiers, like the IPNS name, can be placed inside the word itself. Typically this will go into `metaData`. Immutable identifiers like the IPFS hash or the nostr id cannot be placed into the word itself, for obvious reasons. Therefore, the only universal identifiers that will be found inside the word itself (inside metaData) will be mutable identifiers. Mutable identifiers are always under the control of an author, who is responsible for updating the content. The metaData will therefore optionally also contain a reference to the author of the mutable identifier.

# Placement

By convention, locally unique identifiers will be found in `wordData`. 

Universally unique identifiers will be found under `metaData`. 

# Types of identifiers

## slug

Every top-level domain (`wordData`, `widgetData`, `userData`, etc) has default properties, one of which is slug. By default, the value of slug is a string and is unique, meaning that within the context of the `graph` or `conceptGraph` in question, there are no two words with the same `fooData.slug`. By default, `wordData.slug` is required. Bu default, `fooData.slug` is optional for all domains other than `fooData` = `wordData`.

## nostr event id

## ipfs hash


# Example 

In the example below, `fooBar_e12345` is a locally unique identifier, whereas `abcde12345` is a universally unique (mutable) identifier.

```json
{
  "wordData": {
    "slug": "fooBar_e12345",
    "name": "foo bar",
    "title": "Foo Bar",
  },
  ...
  "metaData": {
    "IPNS": "abcde12345",
    "author": {
      "ipfsHandle": "vwxyz67890", 
    },
  },
}
```
