DIP-102
======

wordTypes
------------------------------

## General principle

`Words` (defined in [DIP-100](100.md)) will be organized into categories called `word types`. Most words will belong to multiple word types.

Conventions:
- Given a word with wordType: `foo`, there must be a top-level property `fooData`
- Word types will be indicated in the array `wordData.wordTypes` as in the example below. (`word` may be omitted from the `wordData.wordTypes` array, since it is assumed.)

### Word types and their top level properties

| word type | top level property |
| ----- | ----- |
| foo | fooData |
| word | wordData |
| wordType | wordTypeData |
| list | listData |
| animal | animalData |
| rating | ratingData |
| ratingTemplate | ratingTemplateData |

### Alternate convention for top-level property

The standard convention is for the top-level property for a word of wordType = `foo` to be `fooData`. According to this convention, `foo` is a `slug`: it is a human-readable identifier, typically camelCase, which is unique within the context of its local environment (within its concept graph).

An alternative convention may be used in which a universally unique cryptographic identifier may be used in place of the locally unique identifier slug. So for example: in place of `fooData`, the top level domain could be `abcde12345`, where `abcde12345` is the nostr id, the ipfs hash, or the ipns name of the word which serves as the declaration of the wordType: foo. This may be of use if the local environment is unknown or not established. 

## Declaration

See [here](declarations/wordType.md).

## Examples

Example of a word of wordType: `widget`. Note the existence of `widget` as an element of `wordData.wordTypes` and `widgetData` as a top level property.

```json
{
  "wordData": {
    "slug": "myWidget_e12345",
    "wordTypes": ["word", "widget"],
  },
  "widgetData": {
    "slug": "myWidget",
    "name": "my widget",
    "title": "My Widget",
    "description": "lorem ipsum",
  },
  ...
  "metaData": {
    "IPNS": "abcde12345",
  },
}
```

Example of a word with multiple wordTypes:

```json
{
  "wordData": {
    "slug": "Fido_e12345",
    "wordTypes": ["word", "animal", "dog"],
  },
  "animalData": {
    "animalType": "dog",
  },
  "dogData": {
    "name": "Fido",
  },
  ...
  "metaData": {
    "IPNS": "abcde12345",
  },
}
```

## Replacements of locally unique identifiers with globally unique identifiers inside `wordTypes`

In the array `wordData.wordTypes`, the slug may be replaced by a unique cryptographic identifier. For example, the above example could be modified like this:

```json
  "wordData": {
    "slug": "Fido_e12345",
    "wordTypes": ["word", "abcde12345", "dog"],
  },
  ...
```

where `abcde12345` is the nostr event id (or ipfs hash or ipns name or some other unique identifier) used to identify the word that provides the declaration (see below) of the wordType: `animal`.

Likewise, `animalData` could be replaced with `abcde12345Data`.

One of the rules of a concept graph (see later DIP) is the rule that each and every word in the concept graph has a locally unique (local to the concept graph) human readable identifier. Typically, the locally unique human readable identifier will be a slug. Therefore, normally `animal` and `animalData` will suffice, so that `abcde12345` and `abcde12345Data` are not necessary.

## Creation / declaration of a new wordType

Implicit declaration:
- the creation of a word with top-level property `fooData` implies the word type `foo`.
- the declaration of a `list` (see upcoming DIP)
- the declaration of a `concept` (see upcoing DIP)

Explicit declaration:
One of the most important word types is, if you can believe it: `wordType`. It can be used to declare other word types, as in the example below:

Declaration of the word type: `animal`:

```json
{
  "wordData": {
    "wordTypes": ["word", "wordType"],
  },
  "wordTypeData": {
    "slug": "animal",
  }
}
```

Declaration of the word type: `wordType`:

```json
{
  "wordData": {
    "wordTypes": ["word", "wordType"],
  },
  "wordTypeData": {
    "slug": "wordType",
  }
}
```

For more examples, see [declarations](declarations).


