Default properties for newly declared word types
=====

For each word type, by convention, properties will be made available by default but will not necessarily be required.
- `slug`
- `name`
- `title`
- `description`

Note that in the first example above, `name` and `title` are present under `widgetData` but are absent from `wordData`.

The inclusion of name and title, though it may seem redundant, will be useful for UI purposes. The purpose of title is to basically be more formal presentation than name. Typically simply capitalized.

## singular vs plural forms

In some cases, it will be desirable to distinguish singular and plural forms of `slug`, `name`, and `title`. In such instances, the strings `slug`, `name`, and/or `titlw` will be replaced by the objects `oSlug`, `oName`, and `oTitle`, the `o` indicating "object", each of which will contain two properties: `singular` and `plural`, each of which is a string. See [declarations](declarations) for illustrations, with singular forms under `wordData`` but singular + plural forms under `wordTypeData`.

Singular and plural forms are notably in the following word types:
- `list`
- `wordType`

## relationships between slugs

Frequently, the slugs will have the following relationship, as in the example:

In this example, the slugs are all the same (all "Fido"):

```json
{
  "wordData": {
    "slug": "Fido",
    "name": "Fido",
    "title": "Fido",
    "wordTypes": ["animalData","dogData"],
    "metaData": {
      "nostr": {
        "stewardPubkey": "c51a542e4f93afe6f45e5bef002f7a0efcc0a47460a736654c0bee5402c482fa",
        "uniqueIDs": {
          "slug": "relationshipType_isASubsetOf"
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "animalData": {
    "slug": "Fido",
  },
  "dogData": {
    "slug": "Fido",
  }
}
```

But in this example, `wordData.slug` does not equal `relationshipTypeData.slug`:

```json
{
  "wordData": {
    "slug": "relationshipType_isASubsetOf",
    "name": "relationship type: is a subset of",
    "title": "Relationship Type: Is a Subset Of",
    "wordTypes": ["relationshipType"],
    "metaData": {
      "nostr": {
        "stewardPubkey": "c51a542e4f93afe6f45e5bef002f7a0efcc0a47460a736654c0bee5402c482fa",
        "uniqueIDs": {
          "slug": "relationshipType_isASubsetOf"
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "relationshipTypeData": {
    "slug": "isASubsetOf",
    "name": "is a subset of",
    "title": "Is a Subset Of",
    "description": "One of the principle links in a class thread.",
    "wordFromAllowedWordTypes": ["set", "superset"],
    "wordToAllowedWordTypes": ["set", "superset"],
  }
}
```

The reason for making them distinct is that we need to avoid multiple words using the same `wordData.slug`. (Is this a good example? Necessary in this case to use relationshipType_isASubsetOf rather than just isASubsetOf?)

## Slug conventions

Naming conventions for `wordData.slug` are illustrated for each of the structural word types using `widgets` and `foo bars` as examples:


| word type | slug for `widgets` | slug for `foo bars` |
| ----- | ----- | ----- |
| word type | widget | fooBar |
| superset | widgets | fooBars |
| json schema | jsonSchemaFor_widgets | jsonSchemaFor_fooBars |
| concept | conceptFor_widgets | conceptFor_fooBars |
| item directory |itemDirectoryFor_widgets | itemDirectoryFor_fooBars |
| property directory | propertyDirectoryFor_widgets | propertyDirectoryFor_fooBars |

Note that for each of the standard structural conceptual word types (jsonSchema, concept, itemDirectory, propertyDirectory), the slug is (wordType)For_(the plural slug form of the concept), with the exception of wordType and superset, for which the singular and plural forms are used by themselves without the prefix, respectively. Yeah, I know that's a mixture of camelCase and snake_case ...

Note that this shows why it's necessary for `wordTypeData` to record a singular as well as a plural form for slug, and that these stwo slugs must be DISTINCT. Otherwise, the word type and the superset nodes would use the same slug.
