DIP-106
======

list
------------------------------

(a.k.a.: simple list)

Following the convention of [DIP-102](102.md), a new `wordType` will be introduced: `list`. "Simple list" in DCoSL refers to this word type.

In a sense, a list is a primitive word type. Lists and word types each require specification of singular and plural forms (widget + widgets). (Contrast that with a word that represents an individual person, place, or thing, which does not require a plural form.) However, a word type gives rise to a concept, which supports features such as a directory of items which a simple list does not support. 

## Properties

By convention, `listData` will contain three string fields: `name.singular`, `name.plural`, and `description`. Effectively, `name.plural` will be the name of the list (e.g. a list of widgets), and `name.singular` will be the word type for any item on the list. For any given list with `name.singular` = `foo`, any given item on that list will be expected to be of word type: `foo` and to contain `fooData` as a top-level property.

## Declaration

See declarations for [nostrCuratedList](declarations/nostrCuratedList.md) (used in testnet-1) and for [list](declarations/list.md).

## Examples

Example #1 a list of `widgets`:

```json
{
  "wordData": {
    "wordTypes": ["list"],
  },
  "listData": {
    "name": {
      "singular": "widget",
      "plural": "widgets",
    },
    "description": "lorem ipsum"
  },
  ...
}
```

The above word creates `widget` as a new `word type`, which is employed in the example below of an item on the list of `widgets`:

```json
{
  "wordData": {
    "wordTypes": ["widget"]
  },
  "widgetData": {
    ...
  }
  ...
}
```

Example #2 a list of `nostr relays`:

```json
{
  "wordData": {
    "wordTypes": ["list"],
  },
  "listData": {
    "name": {
      "singular": "nostr relay",
      "plural": "nostr relays",
    },
    "description": "lorem ipsum",
  }
}
```

As is the case for example #1, the above list implies a new `wordType` to represent nostr relays. Note that the convention is that `wordType` is in camelCase. So in this case, te new wordType is `nostrRelay`, as per the item below, which is an example of an item on the list of `nostr relays`:

```json
{
  "wordData": {
    "wordTypes": ["nostrRelay"],
  },
  "nostrRelayData": {
    "name": "wss://relay.damus.io",
    "description": "lorem ipsum",
  }
}
```

Two methods can be used to avoid any confusion regarding the precise form of the word type created by the new list. The first method is to include the `slug` field in parallel to the `name` field in the list declaration, in which case the implied word type is `listData.slug.singular`, as in the example below:

```json
{
  "wordData": {
    "wordTypes": ["list"],
  },
  "listData": {
    "name": {
      "singular": "nostr relay",
      "plural": "nostr relays",
    },
    "slug": {
      "singular": "nostrRelay",
      "plural": "nostrRelays",
    },
    "description": "lorem ipsum",
  }
}
```

The second method is to declare the new wordType explicitly rather than to create it by implication:

```json
{
  "wordData": {
    "wordTypes": ["wordType"],
  },
  "wordTypeData": {
    "slug": "nostrRelay",
    "name": "nostr relay",
  }
}
```

## Abstraction

The statement: 

```
(listItem) is a member of (list)
```

with parentheses denoting a cryptographic identifier, is fundamental to DCoSL, in the same way that the membership relation

```a ∈ b```

is fundamental to set theory, and thus to all of methematics. 

Although not necessary for our purposes, we could carry the abstraction further:

```
(thing) is a member of (thing)
```

where designations `list` and `listItem` are implied by the relationship.
