DIP-900
======

words and wordTypes
------------------------------

## General principle

A `word` is a [node](../glossary/node.md) in a [concept graph](../glossary/conceptGraph.md) which represents a single object in JSON and which follows the conventions in this DIP.

### words

Conventions:
- top-level properties may include `wordData` and `metaData`
- human-readable identifiers such as `slug` will be located under `wordData`
- typically `slug` identifier will be unique within any given [concept graph](../glossary/conceptGraph.md)
- cryptographic identifiers (mutable ones, such as IPNS name) will be located under `metaData`

Example:

```json
{
  "wordData": {
    "slug": "fooBar_e12345",
    "name": "foo bar",
    "title": "Foo Bar",
  },
  ...
  "metaData": {
    "IPNS": "abcde12345",
  },
}
```

In the above example, name and title are not required to be unique within the concept graph. However, `wordData.slug` must be unique. To enfore uniqueness, a common practice will be to create the slug from the name, using camelCase, with underscore followed by the last 6 characters of whatever non-human-readable mutableidentifier is being used.

The publication of a `word` to nostr is described in [DIP-105](105.md).

### wordTypes

Words will be categorized into `word types`. 

Each `word` (defined above) will be assigned one or more `word types`.

New wordType declaration: New wordTypes can be declared either explicitly or implicitly.

Implicit declaration is just by usage.
- the use of a word with top-level property `fooData` implies the word type `foo`.


Word types will be indicated in the array `wordData.wordTypes` as in the example below. `word` may be omitted from the `wordTypes` array, since it is assumed. 

For each word type `foo`, there will be a top-level object property called `fooData`.

Examples of word types:

| word type | top level property |
| ----- | ----- |
| foo | fooData |
| word | wordData |
| wordType | wordTypeData |
| list | listData |
| animal | animalData |
| rating | ratingData |
| ratingTemplate | ratingTemplateData |

```json
{
  "wordData": {
    "slug": "myWidget_e12345",
    "wordTypes": ["word", "widget"],
  },
  "widgetData": {
    "slug": "myWidget",
    "name": "my widget",
    "title": "My Widget",
    "description": "lorem ipsum",
  },
  ...
  "metaData": {
    "IPNS": "abcde12345",
  },
}
```

For each word type, by convention, properties `name`, `title`, and `description` will be made available by default but will not necessarily be required. Note that in the above example, name and title are present under widgetData and have been removed from wordData.

Note that the inclusion of 'word' as an item in wordData.wordTypes is implied and may be excluded without generating an error.

An example of a word with multiple word types:

```json
{
  "wordData": {
    "slug": "myWidget_e12345",
    "wordTypes": ["word", "animal", "dog"],
  },
  "animalData": {
    "animalType": "dog",
  },
  "dogData": {
    "name": "Fido",
  },
  ...
  "metaData": {
    "IPNS": "abcde12345",
  },
}
```

Note that in the above example, the set `dogs` is a subset of `animals`.



