DIP-906
======

class thread
------------------------------

The following definition applies to JSON-centric and JSON Schema-centric graphs. Generalization to JSON-centric graphs that use alternatives to JSON Schema, or to graphs that are not JSON-centric, are discussed below.

## Background

In DCoSL, data is frequently represented as a [graph](../../glossary/graph.md), with [nodes](../../glossary/node.md) and [edges](../../glossary/relationship.md). A contiguous sequence of relationships is called a [thread](../../glossary/thread.md). 

Within any graph, there is a specialized type of node F which provides formatting data for other nodes. If a node N is subject to the formatting requirements of formatting node F, there needs to be a way to keep track of that requirement. This is is function of a class thread: it is a path which starts at a formatting node F and ends at a node N. The existence of the class thread is a record of the formatting relationship.

As per DIP-???, nodes of wordType: jsonSchema are one type of formatting node.

## Definition

A `class thread` is a thread with the following characteristics:

- The first node is of a wordType: jsonSchema.
- The first relationship is of relationshipType: isTheJsonSchemaFor
- The second node is of wordType: wordType, which provides the declaration for the wordType: foo.
- relationship: isTheSupersetFor
- The third node is of wordType: superset
- Subsequently, there is a series of nodes of wordType: set, connected by subsetOf relationships.
- relationship: isASpecificInstanceOf
- The final node is of wordType: foo.

## Generalizations beyond JSON

DCoSL can be generalized to JSON-centric graphs that use alternatives to JSON Schema, or to graphs that are not JSON-centric.

