DIP-1100 (formerly 900)
=====
`wordData.metaData.nostr`
-----

This DIP specifies the `wordData.metaData.nostr` property which is used for referring to and locating words within the nostr network. (This may be redundant with specifications from one of the early DIPs under conceptGraph.)

This property is optional.

The purpose of this section is to be a local record of where you got the word from. This may be useful to check for updates to the word, if it is desired to follow updates by the original author. Which is the whole point of stewardship: to provide updates. The original author of the word may wish to include it as a record that he or she is the original author.

Note: "original author" doesn't mean you didn't plagiarize it. Basically it means you intend to keep track of updates made by that author. It does NOT necessarily indicate a claim of originality. (Which is why I call it steward instead of author.)

## stewardPubkey

Universal unique IDs in metaData require a steward with the authority of linking the immutable name to the mutable name when there are uptates. In nostr, this is the stewardPubkey, analogous to the peerID in ipfs.

The convention is that words are published using a specifically designated nostr pubkey, called a steward pubkey. Each steward is expected to maintain unique wordData.slug. For example: if you want to provide multiple competing definitions for troll, then either you can do it using the same nostr account but distinct slugs (troll_abc123 vs troll_bcd234) or, if you want to keep the slug troll without the excess baggage of the suffix, you need to do it with 

In other words, one steward pubkey is considered to correspond to one concept graph, including the requirement that every slug within any individual concept graph is unique. Multiple concept graphs require multiple steward pubkeys.

## metaData structure

Will be structured according to the following example:

```json
{
  "wordData": {
    ...
    "metaData": {
      "nostr": {
        "stewardPubkey": "c51a542e4f93afe6f45e5bef002f7a0efcc0a47460a736654c0bee5402c482fa"
        "uniqueIDs": {
          "id": null,
          "slug": "foo",
          "version": 1
        }
      }
    }
  },
  ...
}
```

## Version

The `version` tag is optional and can be a string, an integer, or a decimal. If absent, the convention is that the most recent discovered word is the active one. If present, look for a matching field in `wordData.version`, like in this example:

```json
{
  "wordData": {
    "slug": "foo",
    "version": 1,
    ...
  }
  ...
}
```

The `version` tag allows the steward to maintain multiple words with the same slug. This may be particularly useful if multiple drafts of a given word or concept are under consideration. As a salient example, there are currently two versions of `graph`, a 'compact' one and a 'verbose' one, reflecting the fact that I have not yet decided which version should be the standard version.
