DIP-1103 (formerly 903)
=====
stewardship
-----

# Background

A "steward of the concept graph", "steward of DCoSL", "steward of the threaded tapestry" or simply "steward" is a type of nostr profile which publishes words to the nostr network using [DIP-901](901.md), which advertizes itself as a maintainer of those words, and which additionally abides by the following rules:
- no two words issued from that pubkey will have the same `wordData.slug`, unless the `wordData.version` property is included
- the most recent version (by `created_by` in the nostr event) is considered the most up to date, i.e. the "active" version of that word.

This DIP outlines methods for a nostr profile to broadcast its role as a steward, as well as what categories of steward.

# Methods

## Method 1: broadcast an event

The steward can broadcast a note using the protocol of [DIP-901](901.md) using the task: `selfIdentifyAsSteward`

Other users can then obtain a list of all profiles that self-idetify as stewards of the concept graph using the following filter:

```json
{
  "since": 0,
  "kinds": [9902],
  "#t": ["selfIdentifyAsSteward"]
}
```

Future updates to this DIP may include a task which labels other pubkeys as stewards. (But maybe not necessary, if DCoSL provides other methods of doing this.)

## Method 2: include information in the profile `about` section

work in progress

## Method 3: include "Steward" in the profile name

This is a suggestied convention only but is likely not to be used to find stewards formally.

# Discussion

Is it really necessary to self-identify as a steward? Every profile that publishes to 99xx is effectively a steward. The described ruleset is trivial. Always use the most recent slug(+version if indicated). Ought to be true of any user wo publishes to 99xx.
