# DIP-01: explicit, intentional attestations are recommended over scraped data

## General principle

According to this dip, list curation is based upon explicit attestations (EA) rather than scraped data (SD) obtained using other methods. An example of an explicit attestation would be the signed statement of the form: Alice endorses [array of pubkeys ] as sources of trustworthy content. An example of scraped data would be a WoT built upon a following list, scraping the list of relays from each user in the following list.

DIP-01 is based on the attitude that curation via EA is more trustworthy than SD, and that the superiority of EA will grow as the DCoSL ecosystem grows and matures. Of course, a combination of these two methods may be utilized. This dip details a method to use EA by itself.

In DCoSL, the term: `grapevine` is used informally in place of `web of trust` to refer to a web of trust that is built out of intentional attestations rather than scraped data. In addition, as many note, the word `trust` is frequently misleeading and inaccurate for the purpose at hand.

## Example implementation: [Pretty Good Apps](https://github.com/wds4/pretty-good) (navigate to Curated Lists)

Any user can create and submit to the nostr network a new list. Each list has three fields: two name fields (singular and plural, e.g. `nostr relay` and `nostr relays`) and a description field.

Any user can submit to the nostr network a new item to any list. Each item has two fields: a name (e.g. `wss://relay.damus.io` ) and a description.

### Attestations

There are two types of attestations:

<li>endorse user as curator</li>

Alice attests whether she thinks Bob is (thumbs up icon) or is not (thumbs down icon) a trusworthy curator of this list. 

Alice can also create a separate endorsement that Bob is or is not to be considered a trustworthy curator of lists in general.

<li>endorse item</li>

Alice attests whether she considers item X to be an item on list A (thumbs up) or not on list A (thumbs down).

### Score calculations

Curator Trust Scores are calculated using DIPs (need to break this down into DIPs).

Item average scores are calculated using DIPs (need to break this down into DIPs). Any item with a score above 0.5 is considered to be an item on the list in question.

