DIP 1000
=====
integration of DCoSL with nostr

# background / overview

[Nostr](https://github.com/nostr-protocol/nostr) is the first and so far the only network to be integrated with DCoSL. 

# network description 

Nostr notes use a system of kinds and tags. General principles:

- kind 99xx (9900-9999) will be used for regular events that are not intended to be replaceable.
- kind 1999xx (39900-39999) will be used for parameterized replaceable events, such as ratings, for which older version are not intended to remain in stroage.
- The taggins system must be chosen carefully when publishing ratings to 399xx, to maks sure they get replaced appropriately.
- The taggins sytem for concept graph (99xx) will be optimized for ease and efficiency of downloading only the desired data. The alternative is to download large quantities of data, extract the word from event.content, and look inside to word to filter content.

- testnet-01: kinds 9901, 39901
- testnet-02: kinds 9902, 39902

If DCoSL catches on, once mainnet kinds are settled upon, may want to rewrite these DIPs as actual NIPs 

# rationale for integration

Previous attempts to integrate the concept graph with the IPFS were met with slow progress. Nostr is much more flexible. The kinds and tags system in particular is good for our purposes.

# unique identifiers

## data chunks 

Data chunks are referred to in nostr as "nodes." The most frequently utilized nodes are objects referred to as "words."

## methods to label data

Words and other nodes may be identified with:

Locally unique identifiers:
- slug
  
Universally unique identifiers:
- event id
- pubkey of the publisher (called "data steward") + slug (required) +/- version (optional)
  
